[THEME MUSIC]
>> RICHARD DOLAN: I'm Richard
Dolan, and this is False Flags.
During the 1950s and '60s,
there was a worldwide movement
of people in countries
that had recently
been colonies of Europe
throughout Africa, Asia,
and much of the Middle East,
as well as other small nations
in the Western hemisphere
that for all intents
and purposes were colonies
of the United States.
In all these places, people
had the same basic issue--
inequality, poverty,
and the need
for serious social
reforms, land reform
probably being at the top.
If America were an openly
expansionist nation
like Germany or Japan
of the Second World War,
the charade might not have
needed to be so elaborate.
Sure, Germany and Japan both
did international false flags,
but those were incredibly
crude compared with the levels
achieved by the United States.
Simply put, America's rhetoric
and posturing about freedom
forced Americans to
become far, far better
at the art of the false flag.
A perfect example of this
is what is known today
as the color revolution.
After the end of
the Cold War, there
were a series of
what appeared to be
mostly peaceful democratic
uprisings in Eastern Europe,
in what was formerly
part of the Soviet Union.
In 2003, the nation
of Georgia had what
was called the Rose Revolution.
In 2004, Ukraine had the
Orange Revolution, and so on.
These became called
color revolutions.
Was it coincidence that
all of these revolutions
ended up with the
new governments
being closer to the United
States, Europe and the IMF
and less friendly toward Russia?
But in fact, the United States
had mastered this art form
back in the 1950s, long before
anyone came up with the term.
This form of regime
change, one that
wears the trappings
of popular revolt,
often works better
than military coups
because they seem like genuine
expressions of the people.
It's fair to call
color revolution
a form of false
flag, and we really
ought to take a
closer look at them.
There are certain
fundamentals of how
to create your own
revolution in another country
or in your own country,
for that matter.
Step one-- start
with lots of money.
It all goes toward
funding your core leaders
to build the organization.
We're talking many millions
of dollars, and maybe billions
if the need is strong enough
and the target is worth it.
Step two-- your
core leaders hire
the key workers and
trainers, the foot soldiers
of the movement.
Step three-- create social
media and news infrastructure.
Any modern movement has to have
sophisticated social media.
We're talking Facebook pages,
Twitter feeds, Instagram,
and of course, a good website.
Step four-- create
physical infrastructure.
We're talking
office space, tents
if you want shantytowns
or long-term protest
sites, wooden platforms
and structures
for speeches, signs, banners,
lots and lots of signage.
Step five-- create an event, the
event that sparks the movement.
Only when the
infrastructure is ready
do you then need the event.
This is the rallying point
around which your movement
can generate interest.
It could be an election that
you choose to contest or someone
in prison that you
can politicize.
It could be corruption
of the government.
It could be ethnic or
class or racial oppression.
Whatever it is, it has to make
sense within your society.
Step six-- include the public.
Once you have
created your event,
now you use your foot soldiers
and get the public involved.
Once they see that there's
an actual political movement
and that it appears to
be a natural response
to some injustice,
you'll probably
get some public attendance
at your rallies.
This is the
make-or-break moment,
since the movement has to appear
to have broad public support,
or it won't succeed.
Step seven-- provoke
a police response.
This is dangerous, but
obviously can be effective.
It will help to polarize
your society, which
ultimately helps your cause.
Provoking police response
will require very selective
video recording and editing.
Then you display
it on social media.
This means demonstrating
police violence in some form,
but it's all in the editing.
Post your clip to
prove to the world
how repressive
the government is.
Step eight-- once
you have what appears
to be a genuine movement,
you can now enlist support
from local politicians.
Once that happens,
you have sanction,
as it were, from at least
some of the official power
structure.
Step nine-- get the
attention of Western media.
If the funding
behind this movement
is the CIA or powerful groups
with the right connections,
then this step has
already been prepared,
but now is the time
for coverage to begin.
And that leads to step 10--
enlisting international support.
When the US officially
condemns the repressive actions
of the government in
question and supports
your popular uprising, you
know you're on your way.
If all goes well,
condemnations can
lead to sanctions which
increases social misery
and only helps your cause.
And that, my friends,
is how you can
destabilize an entire society.
What we will see today are
several examples of this way
back in the 1950s.
We'll start with the
nation of Iran in 1953.
To this day, America's
operation there
is a classic example of false
flag and regime change success.
And by the way, let's not
leave out the British,
because this was definitely
a joint operation.
Let's take a look
at Operation Ajax.
Throughout the first
half of the 20th century,
Iran with its massive oil fields
was under British domination,
its oil under the
profitable control
of a British
corporation known rather
dishonestly as the
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company.
But make no mistake,
this operation
was British all the
way and had been
controlling the Iranian
oil industry since 1913.
Today, by the way, that company
is known as British Petroleum.
In 1951, a politician
named Mohammad Mosaddegh
became Prime Minister of Iran.
Mosaddegh was a remarkable
man and a true progressive.
Immediately, his government
introduced reforms
like social security and
much needed land reforms.
All these made him very
popular with the people.
But then he did the unthinkable.
He challenged the oil industry.
Initially, he tried to audit
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company
and earn a 50/50 cut from
the company's profits.
When he received no cooperation,
the Iranian parliament
voted to nationalize
Iran's oil industry.
REPORTER: Mosaddegh
wanted none of it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As the crisis worsened and
anti-British feeling mounted,
Iranian army units were
deployed to maintain order.
As the Iranian authorities
moved to take over oil plants
and docks and the British
technicians unanimously
refused to accept employment
with the new regime,
the situation seemed hopeless.
>> RICHARD: Well, this was
popular with the people,
for sure.
With the US and UK, not so much.
This kicked off a
regime change operation
greenlit by Winston Churchill
in the UK and Dwight Eisenhower
in the US, run by the
CIA and known as Ajax.
It resulted in a coup against
the Iranian government in 1953.
The CIA official in charge
of orchestrating events
was Kermit Roosevelt, grandson
of former President Teddy
Roosevelt.
Operation Ajax involved
several things.
One was detonating
a series of bombs
by the agents posing as
members of the Communist Party.
These were actually
Iranian agents
working for US and
British intelligence.
In other words,
kill innocent people
by planting explosives
and then blaming
the communists and also
groups loyal to the Mosaddegh
government.
Now, we know the CIA was behind
this since they've admitted it.
What we don't know is
the extent of this tactic
since the CIA
destroyed nearly all
of its files
relating to the coup.
We do know that at least one
well-known Muslim's house
was bombed by CIA agents
posing as communists.
That much has been confirmed.
And we also know that some
of the most feared gangsters
in Tehran were hired by the
CIA to stage pro-Shah riots
on the day of the coup.
The CIA brought in other paid
demonstrators by the bus load
and took over the
streets of the city.
Up to 300 people may
have been killed because
of the conflict that day.
Another tactic was
bribing demonstrators
into chanting
pro-Mosaddegh slogans
while violently
attacking symbols
of the Shah, who was
essentially the king of Iran
and supported by the US.
And this would be
like paying people
to burn the American flag
in order to discredit
an organization or movement.
In this case, the point
was to turn public opinion
against Mosaddegh
and for the Shah.
It worked.
Quite a few very
unsavory characters
were brought in for this coup.
One was general
Fazlollah Zahedi,
who had been imprisoned
by the British
during the Second World
War for trying to establish
a pro-Nazi government in Iran.
This man was made the
new prime minister
on the day of the coup, and
he received a $5 million
payment the very next day.
And then a month later,
he received $28 million.
Then, after the Iran government
signed a friendly oil deal,
he received yet
another $40 million,
for a total of $73 million.
That's equivalent to
$657 million today.
Another key person in the
coup was Bahram Shahrohk,
who literally had been
trained by the Nazi minister
of propaganda, Joseph Goebbels.
Not surprisingly, he became
Iran's director of propaganda.
Another pro-Nazi,
Sharif-Emami, took
several prominent
government positions,
including that of
prime minister twice.
The Western news media, led
by the BBC and New York Times,
praised this new
Iranian government.
And of course, no one
gave the slightest hint
that this was a
covert operation.
Why would they?
Were deeply in bed with
both CIA and MI6 themselves,
except that ordinary
people had no idea.
The Ajax operation
was wildly successful.
It deposed a popular government
working on behalf of the people
to salvage the oil
companies that were
the real owners of the country.
A big part of the price
the US got out of it
was a major piece of
the Iranian oil action.
So the Brits no
longer had a monopoly.
And the Iranian
people, well, they
got 26 years of the Shah,
who remained a loyal client
of the United States and of
David Rockefeller for the rest
of his days, becoming especially
known for his opulent lifestyle
and repressive political police.
The operation taught
the United States
that it could fake a popular
uprising as long as they
threw enough money around,
hired enough thugs to break
things and kill people,
and had a compliant
media to watch its back.
The US outdid itself the
following year in 1954.
This was a false
flag regime change
operation against the
nation of Guatemala.
Guatemala, one of the
poorest nations in the world,
had been controlled by
US corporations in power
seemingly forever.
The best land was owned by the
American corporation United
Fruit.
The people lived in poverty.
In 1944, there was
a popular revolution
against the dictator,
which led to Guatemala's
first democratic election
and major social reforms
like minimum wage, better
education, improved labor laws,
and expanded voting rights.
In 1950, President
Jacobo Arbenz began
pressing for land
reform, probably
the most important issue
in Guatemala at that time.
The main idea was
to give poor farmers
access to the vast, unused
lands owned by United Fruit.
You can imagine how popular
this would be in such a country.
In America, President
Harry Truman
authorized a coup
against Arbenz in 1952,
but it was aborted when
details leaked out.
Then in 1953, Dwight
Eisenhower became President,
bringing into his cabinet
the Dulles brothers, John
and Allen.
One ran the State
Department, one ran CIA,
and both were heavily
connected to United Fruit.
Eisenhower authorized the
CIA to carry out a coup
operation against Guatemala.
The CIA decided
they needed to show
that Arbenz's
government was communist
and under Soviet control.
First, in February
1954, the CIA planted
weapons in next-door
Nicaragua that
was supposed to
link to the Soviets
and prove that Guatemala was
under control from Moscow.
The president of Nicaragua,
Anastasio Somoza Garcia,
was in on the fix,
and told the press
that a Soviet submarine
had been photographed,
although no images
were available.
Somoza also floated a story
about Guatemalan assassination
squads that no one
seemed to believe.
The CIA also gathered a large
amount of Soviet-marked weapons
to plant them inside
Guatemala before the invasion.
The whole point, of course, was
to prove Russian intervention.
The CIA also bribed
certain members
of the Guatemalan officer corps
to get them to join the rebels.
They set up radio
stations inside Guatemala
and posed as rebels trying to
get recruits for the movement.
One lie that they
told on the radio
was that Arbenz was secretly
planning to disband or disarm
the armed forces and replace
it with a people's militia.
CIA planes dropped
leaflets over Guatemala
carrying the same message.
The CIA even offered
Arbenz himself
a bribe, possibly to
abdicate or something less.
We're not sure.
They dumped a lot of money for
him into a Swiss bank account,
but he rejected it.
An office called the US
Information Agency, essentially
a CIA outfit, started
placing unattributed articles
in foreign newspapers labeling
certain Guatemalan officials
as communists.
They referred to
different actions
by the Guatemalan government
as communist-inspired.
In just a few weeks before
the coup of June 1954,
more than 200 articles
about Guatemala
were written and published
across Latin America.
This became a standard
American practice--
publish a story abroad and watch
it spread around the world.
All this gave the appearance
that independent world opinion
was taking a certain stand, and
it kept America's connection
hidden.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> JOHN CANNON: US Secretary of
State Dulles takes the rostrum
to urge united action by
the Americas to outlaw
international communist
intervention in the Western
hemisphere.
>> JOHN DULLES: This conference
was shocked by the dastardly
attack on members of the United
States Congress by those who
professed to be patriots.
They may not themselves
have been communists,
but they had been subjected
to the inflammatory influence
of communism, which avowedly
uses extreme nationalism as one
of its tools.
>> RICHARD: Shortly
before the coup,
Nicaraguan president Somoza
got back into the picture
and announced that his police
had discovered a secret Soviet
shipment of weapons.
Of course, these had
been planted by the CIA.
And finally, just
before the invasion,
an unmarked plane parachuted
weapons with Soviet markings
into Guatemala.
>> REPORTER: Guatemala City,
representatives of the new
anti-communist government,
inspect $10 million worth
of arms that were sold to
the deposed red government
of President Arbenz.
Manufactured in Czechoslovakia,
and delivered by Polish ships,
the collection was
supposed to help
the commies to
suppress the rebellion
against their tyranny.
>> RICHARD: When, by the way,
some of the CIA's operation was
exposed in late January 1954,
the State Department simply
called the accusations
ridiculous and untrue.
The US press was
completely on board.
Time Magazine ridiculed
the idea that Americans
would engage in a coup and said
the accusations were, quote,
"masterminded in Moscow."
The coup itself was
almost a denouement.
The CIA armed and
trained a force
of 480 men, not large at all.
They invaded Guatemala from
bases in Honduras and El
Salvador on June 18, 1954.
But it was the
psychological warfare
that did the trick, including
setting up an anti-Arbenz radio
station claiming to be
giving genuine news.
Some of the CIA broadcasts
were transmitted
over regular public radio, and
some over military channels,
all very convincing.
During one nighttime raid, a
tape recording of a bomb attack
was actually played
over loudspeakers
set up on the roof
of the US embassy
just to scare the people.
When Arbenz went on the air
to try and calm everyone down,
the CIA jammed his broadcast.
There were also
dummy parachute drops
to make people think it
was a major invasion that
was going on.
United Fruit circulated
photographs of what they said
were mutilated bodies
about to be buried
in a mass grave, examples,
they said, of the atrocities
committed by the Arbenz regime.
The Guatemalan military realized
that this was a US operation,
and for that reason,
it seems, refused
to fight out of terror that
the US would actually invade.
Arbenz resigned a week
later, and the CIA
set up the new government.
>> MAN: This is the first time
in the history of the world
that the communist government
has been overthrown
by the people.
And for that, we
congratulate you
and the people of Guatemala for
the support they have given.
>> RICHARD: The US media was
utterly servile in reporting
things just as the US
government wanted them to.
And meanwhile, the United States
truly dealt the death blow
to Guatemalan democracy.
Through the rest of the
century, that country
was beset by dictatorship,
civil war, and human rights
violations.
But American
corporations were happy.
>> REPORTER: Well, the facts
show that the rebellion now
disturbing Central America
is one conducted by patriotic
anti-red Guatemalans, which
inspires Russia to air
the worn-out charge that
the US created the trouble.
>> RICHARD: The operations in
Iran and Guatemala emboldened
America's CIA into thinking it
had carte blanche with the less
powerful nations in the world.
Regime change became
a point of pride
within people in the CIA's
clandestine operations.
And then came Cuba.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> REPORTER: From his stronghold
in the wild Sierra Madre
Mountains, Cuba's Fidel Castro
emerged triumphant after two
years of guerrilla warfare
against the Batista regime.
>> RICHARD: Cuba had always
been a loyal economic appendage
of the United States, as well as
home to organized crime money,
some of which happened
to be close to the CIA.
At the beginning of 1959,
a revolutionary movement
led by Fidel Castro did the
unthinkable and took power.
In March 1960,
President Eisenhower
allocated $13 million for the
CIA to plan Castro's overthrow.
A few months later in
early January 1961,
not long before he left the
White House to John F. Kennedy,
Eisenhower told the
head of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, Lyman Lemnitzer, that
he would move against Castro
before the inauguration if
only the Cubans gave him
a really good excuse.
Then, Ike put out an idea.
If Castro didn't give a
good excuse, maybe they--
and this is a quote--
"could think of
manufacturing something that
would be generally acceptable."
End quote.
So here, we're talking
about a false flag.
It could be a bombing,
some sort of attack
carried out by the United States
against the United States,
blamed on the Cubans.
Meanwhile, the CIA had been
organizing a secret operation
in Guatemala with the help
of some Cuban exiles known
as Brigade 2506.
The CIA was still
under the direction
of Allen Dulles, who had pulled
off the Iranian and Guatemalan
operations so successfully.
The man who oversaw
what would become
known as the Bay
of Pigs Invasion
was the CIA's Richard Bissell.
Many of the agents Bissell
used for the Cuban operation
had worked for the
1954 Guatemalan coup.
Now, the thing to keep in mind
about the Bay of Pigs Invasion
was that the world
was not supposed
to know the US was behind it.
As incredible as
that sounds, that's
how it was supposed to go down.
The whole thing was
supposed to appear
to the world to be a
Cuban operation entirely.
Kennedy in particular
felt very strongly
that the US needed deniability
of the whole action.
After all, we're talking
about a fairly open invasion
of a sovereign country, even
if it was one they didn't like.
That meant any airpower had
to seem as though it came
from the Cubans themselves.
So a day and a half before
the actual invasion,
on April 15, 1961, three
groups of B26 bombers
bombed three Cuban airfields
near Havana and Santiago.
They were painted to look
like stolen Cuban planes,
and their goal was to
destroy most or all
of the armed aircraft
of the Cuban Air Force
in preparation for
the main invasion.
However, it turned out
that Castro and his people
knew about the raid and
had moved his planes out
of harm's way.
Kennedy realized things
were not looking good,
but it was too late to stop.
On April 17, the
Cuban exile brigade
began its invasion
at an isolated spot
on Cuba's southern shore
known as the Bay of Pigs.
Right away, the
invasion was a disaster.
Unexpected coral
reefs, paratroopers
landing in the wrong places,
and even a Cuban radio station
on the beach
broadcasting every detail
to listeners across Cuba.
Castro's troops soon
pinned down the invaders,
and they quickly surrendered.
Kennedy, the
brand-new President,
had egg all over his face.
But this did not
stop the attempt
to create false flags and
regime change against Cuba.
Most famously, there
was Operation Mongoose
led by US Air Force
General Edward Lansdale.
This included a
wide-ranging plan
from spreading
propaganda inside Cuba
to enlisting resistance
forces to disrupting
the Cuban government
and economy,
destroying sugar crops,
railways, bridges,
oil refinery, and mining
harbors using US special forces.
Mongoose didn't last long.
Kennedy pulled the plug in 1962.
The most shocking false flag
planned during this period
thankfully was
never implemented.
This was Operation Northwoods.
Remember when Eisenhower had
been pining for a manufactured
excuse to invade Cuba?
Well, the idea
stayed in the head
of the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, General Lyman
Lemnitzer.
Lemnitzer decided
that the US would
have to trick the American
public and the world
into hating Cuba so much
that they would sign
on to a war against Castro.
Operation Northwoods was
actually a series of ideas,
none of which came to
fruition, but all of which
required false flags to
justify a war with Cuba.
Probably the most
outrageous of them
considered the
launch of John Glenn,
who was the first American
to orbit the Earth.
On February 20, 1962,
Glenn was to lift off
from Cape Canaveral, Florida
on his historic journey.
Lemnitzer and his
Chiefs actually
proposed to Lansdale that if the
rocket were to explode and kill
Glenn, they would provide,
quote, "irrevocable proof
that the communists
and Cubans did it."
They would do this--
and this is a quote--
"by manufacturing various
pieces of evidence
which would prove electronic
interference on the part
of the Cubans," end quote.
So just consider--
just as NASA prepared
to send the first
American into space,
the Joint Chiefs of
Staff were preparing
to use John Glenn's death
as a pretext to begin a war.
Well, fortunately,
that did not happen.
So Lemnitzer and the Chiefs
developed other ideas.
One was a series of incidents to
take place at the US Navy base
at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, such as dressing
friendly Cubans in
Cuban military uniforms
and then have them start riots
near the main gate of the base.
Others would pretend to be
saboteurs inside the base.
Ammunition would be
blown up, fires started,
aircraft sabotaged, mortars
fired at the base with damage
to installations.
And if this reminds you a bit
of the German invasion of Poland
from 1935, then you're learning.
Another of Lemnitzer's
ideas called
for blowing up a US
ship in Guantanamo Bay
and blaming Cuba.
That one sounds, of course,
like the USS Maine of 1898.
Other ideas included developing
a Cuban terror campaign
in Miami or in Washington,
sinking a boatload of Cubans
en route to Florida,
whether real or simulated,
kill or wound Cuban refugees
in the United States,
and of course giving
them wide publicity.
Now, all of these were to
be blamed on Castro's Cuba.
Lemnitzer also proposed
bombings and hijackings
that would implicate
the Cuban government.
Some of the most outrageous
of these involved making it
seem that a Cuban aircraft
had attacked and shot
down a chartered civil airliner.
Another was to make it appear
that the Cubans had shot down
an American fighter jet
over international waters
in an unprovoked attack.
All of this was
proposed in March 1962.
I think Kennedy was
astounded by all of this.
He simply told Lemnitzer there
was virtually no possibility
that the US would ever use
overt military force in Cuba.
The whole plan was shelved
and remained secret
for the next 40 years.
All notes were thought
to be destroyed,
but apparently, this body
wasn't fully buried after all.
Operation Northwoods
was finally revealed
to the public in a 2003 book by
researcher and historian James
Bamford.
President Kennedy
was assassinated
in November 1963, an event that
rightfully should be considered
a false flag much like Stalin's
assassination of Sergey Kirov
three decades earlier.
In any case, less than
a year after that,
one of the most critical false
flags of the 20th century
took place at a place
called the Gulf of Tonkin
on August 2, 1964.
Lyndon Johnson was now
America's President.
Hostilities had been going on in
Vietnam since the Second World
War, and all through the 1950s
and '60s, the US had been
managing things from
behind the curtain--
preventing Vietnam
from becoming unified,
arming and controlling the
government in South Vietnam,
a government that was so
unpopular that Buddhist monks
began lighting themselves
on fire in protest.
But Johnson didn't want
to tone things down.
He wanted to ratchet
them up and escalate
an already unpopular war.
It could help make
money for his friends
who owned defense corporations.
He could also get the
Pentagon and CIA off his back
and quit trying to invade Cuba,
which was no longer feasible.
But he needed a provocation to
convince the American people
that the war had
to be escalated.
And then on August
2, a sea battle
occurred between the United
States and North Vietnam
in Vietnamese waters.
This was the Gulf of Tonkin.
Both sides experienced
damage to their vessels,
and the North
Vietnamese lost four men
and suffered six casualties.
Two days later, the
National Security Agency
claimed that a similar
battle had taken place.
What actually happened
is that the USS Maddox
was engaged in
electronic espionage
against North Vietnam,
coordinating attacks
by South Vietnam and
the Laotian Air Force
against North
Vietnamese targets.
They were doing this in North
Vietnamese waters, which
is an act of war.
On August 2, the
North Vietnamese,
knowing this was going
on, attacked the Maddox,
rather ineffectively,
as you might imagine.
There was never any
evidence of a second attack.
But on August 5,
newspapers across America
reported this as a
series of attacks
against American vessels.
People were told that
North Vietnamese torpedo
boats launched an unprovoked
attack while the Maddox was
on a routine patrol.
>> REPORTER: Swift and sure
has been US retaliation
for communist PT boat
attacks on the high seas.
This is the Maddox, one
of the two destroyers
that were attacked while
patrolling international waters
in the Gulf of Tonkin
near North Vietnam.
War planes from two
carriers, the Ticonderoga
and the Constellation, avenged
the unwarranted red assault
with 64 sorties to
North Vietnam PT basins.
>> RICHARD: President Johnson
added the attacks were
on the high seas, which
meant international waters,
but this was not true.
Johnson also knew the second
attack never happened.
Captain John J. Herrick,
the task force commander
in the Gulf, had
cabled Washington
that the second report was the
result of an overeager sonar
man who had picked up the sounds
of his own ship and panicked.
The US media relied
almost exclusively
on US government officials
for its information
and almost completely
avoided any questioning
of what actually happened.
>> WAYNE MORSE: At the time,
I referred to it as another
sinking of the Maine.
>> INTERVIEWER: Suggesting?
>> MORSE: Well, you know what
the best historical advice is
in regard to the
sinking of the Maine.
It was a deliberate act on
the part of the United States
to have an excuse to go
to war against Spain.
The Gulf of Tonkin was a
deliberate aggressive act
on the part of the
Johnson administration
to justify making war
against North Vietnam.
>> RICHARD: The rest followed
sadly and predictably.
The US Congress gave permission
for massive air strikes
on North Vietnam and a
dramatically ramped-up US
involvement there up to more
than half a million troops
at a time.
>> LYNDON JOHNSON: When
the going got hard,
when the road got
longer and dustier,
when the casualties
started coming in, why,
there's certain folks started
looking for the seller.
I know they-- or a
good many of them have,
and I don't question
their right to do so.
I don't even criticize them
for taking that position,
if that's what their
conscience dictates.
I just wish their conscience
had been operating when they're
making all these
other decisions,
because Congress gave us
this authority in August 1964
to do whatever may be necessary.
That's pretty far-reaching.
That's the sky's the limit.
>> RICHARD: It wasn't until
2005 that the NSA released
declassified documents which
confirmed the second attack had
never happened.
All North Vietnam was
doing on the second night
was salvaging two of the boats
damaged on the first night when
they were simply defending
their territorial waters
from American military action.
Even though there was a
minor military encounter
between two nations, this
remains a genuine false flag.
The US explicitly
misrepresented events
that were going on
to such an extent
that its portrayal of
them amounted to fiction.
In the first place,
the US had been
involved in ongoing provocations
against North Vietnam,
and these provocations were
military actions that were
killing people in that country.
Second, US ships were in North
Vietnamese territorial waters,
an act of aggression.
Third, the North Vietnamese
defense of its sovereignty
was the equivalent
of a tiny peashooter
against the USS Maddox,
which suffered no casualties.
Fourth, there was
no second attack
as reported by the US
government and slavishly
repeated by the media.
The US power structure
provoked the North Vietnamese
into doing something,
anything that
could be construed as
aggressive and used
that as their justification
for the war it wanted.
And today, Vietnam is one of
the most servile of all the US
client states.
It took the deaths of
perhaps 2 million Vietnamese
to break the population,
but now there
is a nation of cheap
labor fully available
for international
corporate needs.
Mission accomplished.
The events I discussed today
all took place a long time ago,
but their relevance for
today should be obvious.
That's why it remains
essential for those
who care about truth and freedom
and dignity that we remember.
The next time you see an example
of a sketchy regime change
operation around the world,
or the next time a government
asks you to support an
invasion, no matter what
the justification,
take a deep breath
and examine just what
is really going on.
The more we question official
narratives that are fed to us,
the better off we will all be.
Besides, questioning
authority is the foundation
of any free society.
You know, some
people might think
that all this talk about false
flags and nasty government
activities is upsetting.
But what I would say is this--
the art of personal
development for each one of us
requires us to shed many
illusions that have surrounded
us all our lives.
Illusions are painful to
shed, but once they're gone,
we enter into a
truly higher reality.
So don't fear the red
pill, because if you
seek transformation,
you need truth
as your constant companion.
I'm Richard Dolan.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]